- [Instructor] Moving our focus now to endpoints,
we will start, as usual, with a description
of the endpoint as Enterprise Integration Pattern.
Then we will explore specific
endpoint types and implementations.
Recall our core patterns of producer
and consumer as representatives of our business processes
and our messaging framework represented
by messages and channels.
With that context in mind, it is a short step
to understand the endpoint as the conceptual interface
between the business processes and the messaging framework,
as implementation and endpoint is a component,
or a collection of components, that manipulate a message
and make it consumable by the overall business process.
It is important to understand that endpoint
is a very broad descriptor of behavior.
In mapping the Enterprise Integration Pattern
of endpoint to specific Spring Integration implementations,
different publications and teachings
make different delineations.
To organize our learning,
I put forward an understanding of the endpoint
as any processing logic that sits
between a channel and the domain business process.
This diagram shows endpoints
in relationship to the other core patterns we have studied,
namely channels and messages,
where the orange boundaries here represent endpoints.
What is deceptive about this diagram
is that the variety of sub patterns
and specialized implementations that are required
in order to create a robust messaging framework
is very large, much larger than
that small orange rectangle suggests.
So let's break down the complexity.
In Spring Integration, there is one set
of endpoint functionalities that propagate
from a common interface, that of Message Handler.
Message Handler is a lightweight interface
that defines a single method contract
for handling a message.
That method name is handle message.
The functionalities in this lineage all apply
logical decisions to messages
at the emerging end of a channel.
Filters decide whether or not a message
should be passed along or dropped.
A filter is constructed with injection
of a message selector, which supplies the filtering logic,
that is the select discard instructions.
Filter implementations are bundled
in the org.springframework.integration.filter package.
In an upcoming lesson we will implement a filter.
Transformers modify a message
so that you can meet the contractual,
that is the type, expectations of a consumer.
To make a Transforming Handler,
you inject the transformation instructions on construction.
In the org.springframework
.integration.transformation package,
you will find implementations that allow you to do things
like transform payloads between data types
to serialize unserialized payloads, enrich payloads,
or message headers with additional information, et cetera.
In an upcoming lesson we will implement a transformer.
Routers consume messages from a message channel
and forward to one or more different message channels
depending on a set of conditions.
Package org.springframework.integration.router
supplies implementations for routing based on criteria
such as payload type, recipient list,
header values, and errors.
And finally, Spring Integration supplies
the capability to split or aggregate messages.
Stored in respectively named packages,
these complimentary handlers partition a message
into several parts or combine multiple messages
into a single message, sending the resulting message
to be processed independently.
Aggregators depend on correlation data
that are embedded within message headers.
Now let's move on from handlers
to discuss three other Enterprise Integration Patterns
that can also be thought of as subpatterns
to the endpoint.
Within a Spring Integration context,
what these three patterns have in common
is that they are used extensively in the work of connecting
with protocols outside of the Java Virtual Machine,
that is, to external distributed systems.
The Service Activator is
both an Enterprise Integration Pattern
and a specific Spring Integration implementation.
It is used to connect a message channel to a service layer.
The Adapter Pattern is one of the earliest patterns
to emerge in the software mainstream vernacular.
In its classic form, an adapter allows the interface
of an existing class to be used as a different interface.
In the context of enterprise messaging,
adapters are used to interface protocols
and distributed systems, one to another.
The Enterprise Gateway Pattern specializes
in separating a message framework from the application code,
encapsulating the framework
from the core application business logic
so that the latter can be made
completely unaware of the dependency.
Adapters and gateways will come into sharper focus
in future lessons when we focus our attention
on external distributed message exchanges.